---
layout: default
title: "The Powers of the Earth by Travis J.I. Corcoran"
permalink: powers
---

# The Powers of the Earth by Travis J.I. Corcoran

<div class="posts-item-byline">Published on <time datetime="2021-07-20" itemprop="datePublished">July 20, 2021</time></div>

> What was government except control? People breathing without permission wasn't just an annoyance, it was an existential threat.

<cite>- from *[The Powers of the Earth,](https://www.amazon.com/Powers-Earth-Aristillus-Book-ebook/dp/B005JPPMS6)*</cite>

>...the trickiest problem is not achieving independence from overarching government, but avoiding rebuilding the same government structures or social patterns that give rise to those government structures.

<cite>- from *[The Powers of the Earth,](https://www.amazon.com/Powers-Earth-Aristillus-Book-ebook/dp/B005JPPMS6)*</cite>

Anarcho-capitalism, genetically enhanced intelligent DOGS who hate the government more than I do, a moon colony for expat billionaires (and anyone else who wants to live tax-free), AI, gun-building CEOs who aren't afraid to blast government ships out of the, uh, space-sky, and the statist goons trying to steal their wealth to make up for their own failed policies on Earth.

Knowing that about the *[The Powers of the Earth,](https://www.amazon.com/Powers-Earth-Aristillus-Book-ebook/dp/B005JPPMS6)* I regret I didn't read this book sooner. It's that good. But when I bought the novel a year ago on Amazon, I had assumed it would be another poorly writtem, failed attempt to copy *The Fountainhead* and *Atlas Shrugged,* which is to say, 
I thought it would be libertarianism dressed up in ragged shawl of a story. So I sat on the book for a while and it wasn't until I found some [negative reviews](http://morlockpublishing.com/travis-j-i-corcoran/) with calls for the author to be arrested (and 
a certain Cato Institute analyst who said it wasn't actually libertarian)[^1] that I knew I just had to read it.

I wasn't disapointed. Whatever its flaws (and let he who could write better cast the first criticism!), *[The Powers of the Earth](https://www.amazon.com/Powers-Earth-Aristillus-Book-ebook/dp/B005JPPMS6)*
is the first modern philosophical novel that I have read that does what *Atlas Shrugged* and *The Fountainhead* did so well: it manages to actually be an incredible story first and foremost. Even better, it is explicitly anarcho-capitalist, and both unapologetically radical and
hilarious in its depiction of the ridiculousness of society and bureacratic government in the not so distant future. Just a few chapters in and I was feeling this book was written for me. It's a cliche, but I didn't want to put it down. 

Without giving away the plot at all, the novel is set 2064 during a time known as the Long Depression, a half-century of economic, technological, and social stagnation and decline caused by government planners. 10 years prior to the novel, Mike Martin, a kind of space Hank Rearden, found himself in jail along with CEOs around the world after the government ruled that their success had been some sort of crime.

Martin escaped, and with the help of some experimental technology, he fled to the moon. Wearing a homemade spacesuit, he began construction on tunnels which would form an underground lunar town where the only rule is the non-aggresssion principle. In the decade after founding Aristillus, the town has flourished in a way not seen in the last hundred or so years on an Earth strangled by economic regulation, eco-fascism, pathological political correctness, and bureacracy.  

Now the government wants its cut. *[The Powers of the Earth](https://www.amazon.com/Powers-Earth-Aristillus-Book-ebook/dp/B005JPPMS6)* is the story of how Mike, and many other characters we meet, fight back. And I mean *fight.* These colonists aren't afraid to shoot to kill. If you like science-fiction, especially of the fast-paced action variety, and freedom, especially radical freedom and all its implications, you should read this.

The heroes are heroic but believable, and the bad guys-of which there are many including slimy college journalists, politically-correct "woke" soldiers, and self-serving polticians-are comically evil, incompetent, but not predictably so, and uncomfortabley apropos to our time. As I read about the state of the Earth, I kept thinking "crap, this is the future," and then I kept reading because every chapter had me hooked as I wanted to find out what happened to our moon colonists. 

When I was done, I kicked myself for not ordering the sequel in advance.

As for the ideas in the book, if you're a thinking person, the author will make you think while still driving the plot forward. 

- How does a society without government manage property disputes? 
- How do private security contracts work?
-  What happens when people have different definitions of freedom? 
-  What does Earth look like in the future if the dominant ideas and spirit of our time continue unchallenged? 

Even as someone who had read almost all there is to read of anarcho-capitalist thought, I
found myself enjoying and engaging with it all.

If you're an unthinking person, or someone who hates freedom or individual success (often one in the same) well, the book will probably offend you. If you're woke, this book will outrage you,
though it may just change your mind about some things too. 

At least, I'd like to think it will change some minds, though it may be that this is a novel for what Albert Jay Knock calls "the remnant." If thats the case, thats more of an indictment of society than the book. As for me, I will
re-read it sometime and gift it often.

You can buy the book with my affiliate link [here](https://www.amazon.com/Powers-Earth-Aristillus-Book-ebook/dp/B005JPPMS6). I recommend the hardcover, which is very sturdy.

---

[^1]: This is how you know its actually very libertarian. I'll read almost anything the Cato Institute tries to cancel.



